## Rubric
**Length**: 1-2 pages (**400-800 words**)
**Format:** 12pt Times New Roman Font, Double-spaced. Submit as a PDF
**Prompt:** 
1. Pick 4 of the Learning Objectives we have covered so far (you can find them at the beginning of each chapter/topic in the slides). You can pick any 4 you want, but you'll probably get more out of this activity if you pick 4 that you don't feel over-confident about. Put them into a document
2. For each of the 4 objectives, try your best to describe and answer them **from memory without looking back at your notes**. The more detail/information you include for each one, they more you'll get out of this- it's okay if you don't get much when you are 1st just trying to pull from memory, just write down anything you can!
3. After trying to remember everything you can without your notes, go back to your notes/book/lectures. Correct anything in your answers that is missing or wrong **in a different color font**


-------------------------------------------------------------------

## Draft
**Lecture 1, Chapter 1: What is the “Cognitive Revolution” and how was it impacted by the advent of the computer?**
The cognitive revolution occurred in the late 1950s, spurred by the development of the first computer *in 1954*, as well as the neural network. Psychologists pivoted their research to focus on internal mental processes, *taking an information-processing approach*, as opposed to earlier work that had studied observable behavior. In particular, they were interested in the flow of cognition as a set of steps, similar to the “control flow” in a computer program. *Broadbent’s flow diagram of attention (1958) is a good example of this, as it shows the process of attention as a linear series of events.* 

**Lecture 2, Chapter 2: What are some of the important anatomical landmarks in the brain?**
The brain is split into two hemispheres, right and left, and several lobes (frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal). On the lateral surfaces of each hemisphere, a number of sulci (or grooves) differentiate various formations. For example, the central sulcus lies between the precentral gyrus, or motor cortex, and the postcentral gyrus, or sensory cortex, dividing the frontal and parietal lobes. On a larger scale, the brain can also be contained in three distinct areas: telencephalon (forebrain), mesencephalon (midbrain), and metencephalon (hindbrain). *Within the hindbrain, an important formation is the cerebellum, with its tree-like pattern of growth.*

**Lecture 5, Chapter 4: Compare and contrast the three main models of attention (Broadbent, Treisman, and MacKay):**
Broadbent’s model of attention (1958) is an early-selection model, meaning that after being briefly stored in sensory memory, information can be attended by a filter. Information that is unattended is discarded and cannot be retrieved letter, even if it becomes relevant. *Attended information is then passed on to a detector, which processes information from the attended stimulus to determine its meaning and conveys the information on to memory stores.* In Treisman’s model (1964), however, all information is received and retained by an attenuator, which determines which stimuli are more relevant and focuses attention towards them. *Both attended and unattended stimuli are transferred to the dictionary unit, a store for words that are activated at a given threshold, and from there they are passed on to memory.* Since unattended stimuli are not discarded and can be accessed at any time, Treisman’s model is classified as an *intermediate* attention model. MacKay’s model (1973) *is a late attentional model, where selection of relevant stimuli does not occur until after the information has been processed for meaning. MacKay’s model was supported by a dichotic listening experiment, where the meaning of certain words biased participants’ responses.*

**Lecture 6, Chapter 5: Contrast Baddeley’s concept of working memory with Atkinson and Shiffrin’s description of the short-term memory system:**
In *1968*, Atkinson and Shiffrin proposed a memory model that included sensory memory, short-term memory, and long-term memory. They saw short-term memory as a brief mechanism, lasting for at most a minute or two, with a capacity for 7 ± 2 items. *It can be measured by digit span, the number of digits that can be kept active within short-term memory.* With rehearsal, information in short-term can be transferred to long-term. Baddeley put forth his working memory model (1974) as a replacement for Atkinson and Shiffrin’s short-term memory system. *Working memory specifically relates to active cognitive processes related to comprehension, learning, and reasoning.* It is composed of several elements: a phonological loop, that takes in auditory information; a visuospatial sketchpad, that takes in visual information, and a central executive, that manages the two sensory components. Twenty-five years after Baddeley first published his working memory model, he added a new element: the episodic buffer, which communicates between the central executive and long-term memory stores. 