## Rubric
**Length**: ~1pg (**300-500 words**)
**Format:** 12pt Times New Roman Font, Double-spaced. Submit as a PDF
**Prompt:** 
- Find some art - you can visit the Ackland, find art in a book, or visit any one of numerous online art galleries. Find 3 pieces of art, then use 3 different Gestalt principles of grouping that the artist used when creating the work.
- For each of the 3 pieces of art, identify 3 different gestalt principles that we discussed in class (**9 total** - you can repeat them across the artworks but a variety is preferred if possible). You just need to write a brief paragraph for each - where you name the law, and describe how it is being used in the work of art. 
- *Please include and actual screenshot or image NOT a link that I need to go. Points will be deducted if you don't include the art.*
**References:**
- The Kiss by Gustav Klimt
- Composition 8 by Vassily Kandinsky
- Olympia by Eduoard Manet

-------------------------------------------------------------------

## Draft
The first piece of art I chose for this assignment is The Kiss, a painting made by Gustav Klimt in 1908. The Kiss has been one of my favorite paintings since I first started doing art as a child, and I even had the chance to see it in person at the Belvedere in Vienna. Within this work, several of the Gestalt principles are exemplified. First, the law of good continuation, which states that stimuli that appear connected are assumed to be continuous. In The Kiss, we see a female figure draped in a golden robe; though only her head, feet, and arms are visible, we automatically assume that her body continues beneath the robe. Second, the law of similarity: the theory that similar things appear to be grouped together. Because both the male and female figures in the painting are shrouded in gold, they are perceived as one. Lastly, the law of common fate, which argues that objects that move in the same direction are grouped together in the visual field. On the male figure’s robe, a number of black, vertically oriented, rectangular shapes, are visually grouped together, further cementing the cohesiveness of the piece. 
The second painting I chose is a 1923 work by Vassily Kandinsky, Composition 8. This work demonstrates three of the Gestalt principles: the law of common fate, the law of common region, and the law of simplicity. In the upper left corner, we see a black circle overlapping a smaller red circle. The law of simplicity, which states that people tend to interpret stimuli as being as simple as possible, explains why we imagine the red circle as simply extending in a normal pattern behind the black circle. Towards the middle of the painting, below the central triangle, several semi-circles float over a pale blue background. The law of common region, the idea that objects within the same area are grouped together, is supported by the fact that we observe these semi-circles as parts of a larger whole. Lastly, as in The Kiss, we see the law of common fate evidenced by the fact that we perceive movement in the piece, since the lines in the painting, starting in the top right corner and spiraling down to the bottom right, all follow the same direction. 
For my last piece, I chose Éduoard Manet’s Olympia (1863). Olympia was hugely controversial when it was first exhibited; the conservative Paris critics were horrified by the brazen depiction of a prostitute and her maid. Again, we can see three of the Gestalt principles represented in this artwork: the law of good continuation, the law of proximity, and the law of similarity. First, we see the law of good continuation in Olympia’s scarf; although it lies crumpled under her body, we still assume it continues linearly from one end to the other. Next, the law of proximity is shown in the flowers presented by Olympia’s maid: because they are clustered close together, they are perceived as being part of the same group. Third, as with The Kiss, Olympia provides an example of the law of similarity. We see the bright stimuli in the foreground of the painting (the white bed, the ivory scarf, the maid’s dress, the bouquet, and Olympia herself) as melding together into a single pale shape. 