## Rubric
**Length**: ~1pg (**300-500 words**)
**Format:** 12pt Times New Roman Font, Double-spaced. Submit as a PDF
**Prompt:** 
- **For this assignment, answer these 2 questions:
	1. In a few sentences, describe the difference between short-term memory and working memory
	2. Describe the 4 main components of Baddeley’s improved working memory model and give an example of how we use each component
**References:**
- Atkinson, R. C., & Shiffrin, R. M. (1968). Human memory: A proposed system and its control processes. In Spence, K. W., & Spence, J. T. _The psychology of learning and motivation_ (Vol. 2, pp. 89–195.). New York: Academic Press.
- Baddeley, A. (2000). The episodic buffer: A new component of working memory? _Trends in Cognitive Sciences_, _4_(11), 417–423. [https://doi.org/10.1016/S1364-6613(00)01538-2](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1364-6613\(00\)01538-2)
- Baddeley, A. D., & Hitch, G. (1974). Working Memory. In G. H. Bower (Ed.), _Psychology of Learning and Motivation_ (Vol. 8, pp. 47–89). Academic Press. [https://doi.org/10.1016/S0079-7421(08)60452-1](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0079-7421\(08\)60452-1)
- Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. _Psychological Review, 63_(2), 81–97. [https://doi.org/10.1037/h0043158](https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/h0043158)


-------------------------------------------------------------------

## Draft
In 1968, Atkinson and Shiffrin proposed their Modal Model of Memory, which defined short-term memory as a cognitive mechanism that briefly stores a limited amount of information. Earlier, Miller (1956) posited that we are able to hold 7 ± 2 items in our short-term memory, though this theory has been contended, since the definition of items varies situationally. Typically, short-term memory decays within 15-20 seconds, but its capacity can be extended using control processes, such as rehearsal or chunking, which involves participants keeping information active in the brain. Working memory, meanwhile, was introduced by Baddeley and Hitch (1974) as a system of information storage specific to cognitive processes. In other words, working memory relates to an ongoing intellectual task, while short-term memory is simply a brief store of information.  
Twenty-five years after Baddeley and Hitch (1974) published their initial article, Baddeley (2000) revised the working memory model, adding another component to the three they had previously proposed. In their first model, Baddeley and Hitch named two sensory-related components (the phonological loop and visuospatial sketchpad) that are regulated by the central executive; Baddeley (2000) added the episodic buffer, a backup mechanism, which communicates with long-term memory stores. The phonological loop pertains to verbal and auditory information, and involves both a phonological store and an articulatory rehearsal process, which prevents the items in the store from decaying. The visuospatial sketchpad, as its name suggests, relates to visual imagery. Both are managed by the central executive, which coordinates their activity and allows for seamless switching between the two. Lastly, the episodic buffer provides communication between working memory and long-term memory mechanisms, as well as holding more information for longer than the sensory stores. 
We use each of these components on a daily basis. For example, while writing this assignment, I have my course notes open in another tab. After consulting my notes and returning to work on my draft, the central executive ensures that I can access the visual memory of my notes, which is being briefly held in my visuospatial sketchpad. In the background, I’m currently listening to OK Computer by Radiohead, one of my favorite albums. My echoic memory processes the auditory information from a given song, while the phonological loop stores that information for later access, so that I can sing the lyrics, with the correct melody, without actively hearing the song. Earlier, I stopped by Davie Hall to monitor my PI’s mice, and had to remember two of the cage numbers. The episodic buffer allowed me to accurately repeat those numbers to both of my supervisors when I saw them upstairs, as well as now storing those numbers in my long-term memory for further use. 