# Commitment statement

I am committed to myself, my happiness, my creativity, my loving, and my success, no matter what. There is no other option.

I am committed to this because I have amazed myself time and time again by the work I can accomplish and the good I can do, and I want to foster the parts of me that make those things possible. I am committed to this because I never want to let myself down again. I am committed to this because I love this world, I love this life, and I love myself, my body, and my mind. I am committed to this because God has surrounded me with incredible people and I want to make them proud. I am committed to this because I am my parents’ only child and I want to keep my brother’s memory alive as best I can. I am committed to this because I want to make myself happier and healthier, because I feel better when I feel better. I am committed to this because I want to work to become the kind of role model I would want my children to have.

To ensure this, no matter what, every day I will push myself to work harder. Every day I will forgive myself if I fall short and celebrate the progress I have made. Every day I will remind the people I love that I love them. Every day I will look for ways to be inspired and challenged. Every day I will do something good, even if it seems too small or insigifnicant to matter. Every day I will love myself for who I am, as I am. Every day I will travel inch by inch out of my comfort zone, even if it takes time, even if I take two steps forward and one step back. Every day I will work towards the future I want and deserve, even if it always feels out of my reach. Every day I will remember how far I’ve come, how hard it was to get here, and how much I’ve grown along the way. And I will never, ever compromise on myself.

## About the man I’ll marry

I haven’t met this man yet, clearly, and it feels a little weird to write about someone I don’t know. But I guess this is my way of reminding myself of my standards.

The man I’ll marry will be tall, strong, and handsome enough that I never think twice about a stranger I pass on the street or a colleague in the office. The man I’ll marry will be kind, patient, and funny. He will be smart, and he will be able to talk for hours about the things he loves. He will be hard-working but willing and eager to fail. He will be excited to be imperfect, but equally excited to improve himself. He will be loving towards those around him, even those he does not know. He will not complain about his circumstances, especially in situations that he created. He will not compete in the suffering Olympics. He will have a mature, experienced, and accepting perspective on grief and hardship. He will be grateful and gracious, but he will be loud and real and a little crass. He will not be afraid to be human. He will want to work through happiness and sadness, through ease and struggle with me. He will love me and admire me. He will not think I am too much. He will not think I am silly, or judge me when I fall short, and he will not make me feel like he’s waiting for me to fall short. He will want the kind of relationship I want. He will want to love me the way I want to love him. He will be excited to buy me gifts and take pictures with me and put those pictures all over his house. He will do anything to make sure I am understood. He will not make me wish he was someone else. He will communicate clearly, kindly, honestly, and regularly. If either of us are upset, he will set everything aside to work through those feelings. He will want to talk, and he will want to listen. He will not hesitate to point out when I am being crazy. He will be eager to help me work through my neuroticisms. He will be endlessly curious about and proud of me, my life, and my goals, and he will ask good, thought-provoking questions about me. He will inspire me to be better and kinder and more hard-working, while still loving me as I am. He will be dedicated to bettering himself to make those around him happy and proud. He will be traditional enough to be a good husband and nontraditional enough to be a good boyfriend. He will pray with me and for me. He will be introspective and insightful. He will be the sort of person who is wondering about his wife right now.