---
cssclasses: indent
---
## ***Scofield tries to kill himself, but thinks better of it.***

The house is quiet and dark. 
Purple streaks of evening fall across the foyer, painting the spotless floor. Out of the corner of his eye, Scofield can just see the edge of the kitchen, suspended in a bluish haze. One corner of the thin woven carpet that runs along the hall is wrinkled, crimped. He must have tripped on it earlier, but he can’t remember leaving the room. He thinks, feels, that he has been at the table for a long time. 
Below him, his hands rest on either side of a plate, still full. A small orange bottle sits empty where the wine should be. Next to it, a loaded gun: an old Sig Sauer with a chipped slide. His father’s. He reaches for it, with hands that are not his own, then stops. At the base of his throat, he tastes his heart pounding, faster with each second. He struggles for breath. 
The room is coming closer. The table smears together with the walls. He sees himself, watches from above. His face is pale, his bloodshot eyes framed by mauve shadows. His hair, usually combed back in slow waves, is strewn across his forehead, matted and parted by sweat. It is disgusting. He sees the label on the bottle, the tiny black monospaced letters. His own name, his date of birth, the prescription. 
It is beginning to rain outside. Big, heavy rain. He thinks of childhood, trips to a lake, a family with laughing faces. He still believes he can go back to that place, though it doesn’t exist anymore, lake filled up and the forest bulldozed. Maybe that’s where he’s going now.
Now, he is not fighting anymore. It’s been waiting, for a while. Waiting for him, every day, in the hospital people, chests split open, the ventilators, even at home in the mirror and in the kitchen sink. He feels it, like a pain, like a phantom limb. He is done fighting, doesn’t want to argue anymore. It is coming up his throat, the pain. He tries to touch his face, but misses, fumbling at the air. 
“No,” he says, surprised when he hears his own voice, feels the saliva on his lips. His words are beginning to slip into each other. “No.”
When he tries to stand up he crumbles on the floor. He cannot see the hall now, he cannot take a breath. If he calls Taylor he will end up in an ambulance, he will not die in a hospital under fluorescent lights and cannulas. Fucking stupid mistake. He’s getting so frustrated, what was he thinking. There is a medicine in the bathroom cabinet, on the other side of the house, the big master bathroom with the tile floors. He is too neurotic to try the poison without the cure on hand. 
The room is inside of him. The world is inside of him, one huge blunt instrument.
He is trying to get up, trying to make it down the carpet, past the floor lamps and the frames on the wall. Embarrassed, he knows it now for certain: he is scared of death. He is not going to die, not here, but he is close, he can see it all around him, he is trying to get away. Get away. Finally he is in the bathroom. His hands are almost useless, shaking, violent over the metal knobs on the the cabinets, ripping the plastic wrapping off the spare syringe and puncturing the lid of the small clear bottle. 
The veins in his arm are prominent, they’re moving somewhere between blue and green, snaking. When he pinches the skin above them, their edges blur, his hand still trembling, the way the edges of old movies wobble on the screen. Too real, his thumb too heavy for the plunger. He keeps his teeth gritted, his eyes fixed on the angled tip of the needle as it pierces his skin. Flinching, he begins to empty the syringe.
It is over now. He sees himself again, that bitter face, paling from peach to grey. His breathing slows, then, briefly, stops. His chest sits flat and tepid on the carpet. The ribbed shell of his trachea lies still under his skin. A constellation of punctures lies in the crease of his elbow. Beneath it, his veins are becoming brighter, still blue and faint, but an alive sort of blue, no longer the blue of a decaying body. Offshoots of a beating heart, like the roots of an evergreen. Outside, traffic slows, but the signs of life continue: sirens and birdsong on a street he can’t see. The worst is over, he knows that. 

When he sits up, he feels the sheets under his palms. The heat floods back into his face, spreading from his jaw to the bridge of his nose. He blinks, opens his mouth and closes it a few times, like he’s not sure what he’s meant to do with it. 
The room is quiet and dark, and he is alone. 