In the evening we take our father’s old guns from the downstairs closet. It is spring, the air is fresh and thick and a green haze covers everything. The barrels are cold, the wood is chipping, splinters lodge fast in our little hands. I am cradling the box of ammunition under my arm and looking at my sister, her big smile, her dirty dress. We are laughing, trying to stay quiet as we hear our voices echo from wall to wall, but no one is listening. Nothing in the house is locked anymore, not the doors, not the cabinets. Our father’s trophies cloud like northern skies under years of dust and his prize rifles have been forgotten.

We slip out by a back door and taste the spring chill on our faces, stepping through tall grasses and swarms of flies. Again we laugh and shout but here our voices are swallowed by the songs of a hundred birds. Nature has bloomed weedy around the corpse of the house, jumping as we jump, grinning as we grin. Paths open up around our skinny legs, paths we know from years of running. We are playing our favorite game.

Our makeshift targets are hidden behind rows of trees. We line up like soldiers, the tin box open at our feet, and we stare down the barrels at colored circles. I take a shot but the target escapes me, blowing like a tattered flag in the wind. Smoke gathers in my face and tears smart in my eyes. My sister hits the bullseye, first try. Bugs flit around our socks but scatter in the air when the guns go off. Soon the targets are peeling apart. Then we lie on the ground, mostly silent. Shapes emerge in the sky above and we call them out like constellations before they gust away. The sun sets later and later each day, an animal running from a blaze of blue clouds.

In a month it is summer and we are in a different place, a different house. We leave the guns and our mother’s grave in Moscow, sitting with our bags on a train to Petersburg. We watch the world through the windows, a mush of homes and forests and farms. We are already bored by the vastness of our country. Books lay in our laps, but we are not reading. We are thinking of our mother, wishing she was here with us instead of the mistress whom we hate. We cannot say it, but we are angry with our mother, each in our own ways. We are too young to understand death, much less the illness that preceded it. All we know is that she abandoned her post, she left us alone in that useless gaping house with our father, our father who drinks, our father whose laugh is too loud, our father who is afraid to look at us. And now we are leaving her, now there is a new woman sitting next to our father, and in Petersburg there will be a new gaping house to plunder. Such thoughts come late to most, and never to some, but they have been with us since childhood, and will follow us no matter how far we go.

…

We are in Petersburg for three years before my father dies. His liver rots like a leech inside his own body and finally fails. When he loses the fight, too weak to even lift his head, it is a relief more than anything. We kneel at his tombstone once, in black frills with flowers at our feet, then never again. His face appears in the papers, and ours below it, staring out from between chipper headlines. Suddenly we are desirable. Condolences come from all corners of the country and we slip into the spider web of princes and grand dukes. The family loses little time. Letters arrive, and people follow soon after, knocking on our double doors like we are trophies for the taking.

In the end it is our grandmother who comes to collect us, snatching us up like a falcon from an eyrie as if we had always belonged to her. She is tall, elegant. Her bustle trails behind her on the stoop and her pearls glow in the midday air. She watches silently as we emerge from the halls, barely smiling. We have not seen her since our mother died, and we are trepidatious, we remember her as a threat, as a woman of action. Indeed she still is, in more ways than we can understand. We are in her house on the other side of Petersburg within the hour, only one bag each.

That night is long. I remember few nights after that one. The days blur like paint on a busy palette as the weeks go by, the months are jumbled together and condensed into single moments. But that night sticks in my mind even now. I lie alone in my small room, as the world opens up to swallow me whole and alive. I lie there all night in that thin bed, tossing and turning to stare at different parts of the room, watching the sun filter through the damascus curtains. For the first and only time, I feel the ache of grief, that pain in my throat as I realize this cold foreign place is the closest thing to home I will have for many years.

Our grandmother has no interest in wealth and knows we must lose our interest too if we are to survive. Everything is plain, floor to ceiling. The only servant is the old Russian butler, so old my sister thinks he was once our grandmother’s serf.

Our father’s apartment is made into a museum of Russian history. 