---
aliases: []
---
**Total: 16.5 hours**

**9.6.2024, 7:00 to 3:30 (8.5 hrs) - shadowed Dr. Allan Friedman at Duke University Hospital**

1st case: lateral craniotomy for partial tumor resection (glioma). 
I got there early enough to watch pre-op: catheter, IV, anesthesia, intubation, etc. Lots of doctors and nurses came in and out - at one point there were 13 of us in the room. Pt was draped and Dr. Friedman came in to make the incision. The resident, Dr. Dalton, scrubbed in, as well as the med student. Neuronavigation was prepped and there was a huge array of instruments. Dr. Friedman scrubbed in and began the operation together with Dr. Dalton, using neuronavigation to locate the tumor. Neuronavigation is amazing. I wish I had a day to myself in the OR just to play with the software. I stayed on the sidelines for a while until Dr. Friedman told me I could come closer. At the closest I was about an arm's length from pt's open skull. I could see his brain pulsing with each heartbeat. The tumor was close to the surface near the sensory-motor cortex, so the resection was quick. Using the microscope, Dr. Friedman removed the tumor while the med student explained some things to me and answered some of my questions. We watched the resection on a screen. The microscope is a huge Leica contraption that looks like a robot arm. Dr. Friedman took off his shoes to control the bipolar cautery pen, which was oddly endearing and hilarious. He also hummed to himself now and then, again endearing. As he finished resecting, he used a stimulator to check which areas of the brain stimulated which muscles - essentially checking how far he could keep cutting. Dr. Friedman was very quiet but courteous and thanked all the staff. When he left, the resident performed the closing: first the dura was stitched back together, then the bone flap was screwed in place, then the scalp was closed with an interrupted stitch, then they stapled the whole incision. It was a large incision - the bone flap was about the size of my palm. Dr. Friedman kept the OR quiet (no music) and hot (unfortunately for me in the bunny suit that the charge nurses gave me). Dr. Dalton put on 500 Miles and turned the heat down and told the med student that she was redoing Dr. Friedman's side of the incision. I liked her a lot. After they closed I left to take my earrings off for the MRI case and got lost in the maze. A nurse let me back into the OR hall. Duke Hospital is like the Tardis I think. 

2nd case: lateral craniotomy for tumor resection (glioma) with MRI. 
After about 20 minutes I finally found the MRI rooms. They were squandered away down one of many hallways. All the hallways look the same, with huge red signs warning against food, drink, and outside attire. Next time I will definitely wear my scrubs instead of my suit. The MRI room is a suite, with a large operating room, a small MRI control room off to the side, and an machine that expands from behind a set of huge metal doors to surround the pt on the table. This case was much longer than the first even though I arrived after pre-op. It was also much more difficult. The tumor was adjacent to the third ventricle, so even though the incision and bone flap were about the same size, the time it took to safely locate the tumor was much much longer. When Dr. Friedman reached the tumor using neuronavigation, he slowly resected it with the bipolar, again taking his shoes off. Kind of an awesome move honestly. The resident - Nick something - helped. The amount of blood loss was shocking, seemed so anyway. Then they closed the pt up with loose sutures and the med student took me to the cafeteria to get lunch. We shovelled our food and rushed back to the OR. By then Dr. Friedman had his shoes back on and the nurses were supervising the MRI. Waiting for the MRI was admittedly pretty boring, but the pt's heart rate did drop to 31 which was exciting, though anesthesia seemed unfazed. The really exciting part came when we went back inside and the team opened up the pt again. Dr. Friedman came back in, and used neuronavigation to overlay the old scans with the new scans, so he could see exactly what they'd removed. He went back to remove more tissue, and the resident helped (and asked me to adjust his loupes for him which made me feel very helpful). Finally they closed the pt up. Dr. Friedman left for the day and I left too, exhausted but over the moon, and then missed the bus. 

**9.23.2024, 7:00am to 3:00pm (8 hours) - shadowed Dr. Allan Friedman at Duke University Hospital** 