---
aliases: []
---
Hypothesis: 
I predict that the test tube with EDTA will show the lowest absorbance, since EDTA binds to two crucial ions (calcium and magnesium) and should have the largest negative effect on enzyme activity.

Introduction: 
In this experiment, we will be measuring the effect of cofactors on enzyme activity with a spectrophotometer and chelating agents. Serving as catalysts within the cell, enzymes power chemical reactions, acting upon specific substrates to create cellular products. Cofactors, metallic ions that bind to the active site of an enzyme and facilitate reactions, are essential for product formation. By introducing chelating agents, such as ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA), which binds to calcium (Ca2+) and magnesium (Mg2+) ions and prevents them from interacting with the enzyme, we can directly measure the effect of the metallic cofactors. The compound used in this experiment is catechol, which is catalyzed by the enzyme catecholase to a reddish-brown compound called benzoquinone. That reaction is quantified with the following equation:
catcheol + 1/2 O2 → catecholase → benzoquinone + H2O
5 tubes, including one blank used for calibration, are prepared with a mix of catechol and catecholase. The three different chelating agents used in the experiment (EDTA, PTU, citric acid) are each distributed to tubes 1-3, while the fourth tube is mixed with distilled water. We calibrate the spectrophotometer to 540nm, a wavelength that absorbs green and should reflect the reddish-brown tint shown by benzoquinone, and use it measure the absorbency of each of the mixtures. The independent variables in this experiment are the chelating agents, while the dependent variable is the absorbency. Since calcium and magnesium are two critical cofactors for product formation, I predict that the tube with EDTA will show the lowest absorbance. 

Materials and Methods: 
We use catechol as the main compound in this experiment. Catechol is naturally colorless, but when catalyzed by the enzyme catecholase, it forms benzoquinone, which has a distinctive reddish-brown tint. Benzoquinone is an antiseptic, guarding against antigens in damaged tissue, and its creation necessitates the presence of catecholase. Since we want to test the effect of cofactors on product formation, we use chelating agents - ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA), phenyl thiourea (PTU), and citric acid - to prevent binding of cofactors to the catechol active sites. These chelating agents bind to different cofactors; EDTA binds to calcium and magnesium ions, while PTU and citric acid both bind to copper ions. Testing these different chelating agents will allow us to see which cofactors have the largest effect on enzyme activity. 
A catecholase solution is made from chilled and peeled white potatoes. The chilling prevents denaturation of the enzymes, while the peeling removes excess unnecessary material. The potatoes are chopped, blended, and mixed with 500 milliliters of chilled, distilled water. This mixture is blended in three ten second bursts - the short duration of the blending time prevents the blender getting overheated due to friction. The mixture will then be strained through cheesecloth to filter any excess material, and finally distributed into vials, which are kept on ice. 
5 test tubes, one of which is used to calibrate the spectrophotometer, are needed for the experiment. All except the calibration tube (5), which contains water, are filled with 1mL of the enzyme mixture. 2 mL of each chelating agent is then pipetted into tubes 1-3, while tube 4 is given 2mL of distilled water. After covering the tubes with film and inverting them to mix the chelating agent and enzyme solution for two minutes, 2mL of catechol is added to tubes 1-4. The test tubes are now ready to be measured in the spectrophotometer. 
For this experiment, the spectrophotometer is set to 540nm, the wavelength of green. Because benzoquinone reflects reddish-brown light, it also absorbs green, so setting the spectrophotometer this way will make it easier to read the results. The spectrophotometer quantitatively measures the changes in the absorbance of green light, which correlates to the amount of product formation. After calibrating the spectrophotometer with tube 5, we measure tubes 1-4, then replace the tubes on the rack, wait for an interval of 10 minutes. To ensure that the glass tubes have not been clouded, they are cleaned with Kimwipes, and again inverted before taking the second measurements. 
The control group in this experiment is tube 4, which is mixed with distilled water instead of chelating agents. This allows the catalyzation process to take place unhindered by the chelating agents, which disrupt the reactions in the other three tubes. The experimental groups are tubes 1-3, which are each mixed with different chelating agents. 

