Materials and Methods
a. We begin by examining the Hill reaction with the compound DPIP, which, when in contact with photosynthesizing chloroplasts, loses its blue pigment. The spectrophotometer is callibrated 605nm, the wavelength that blue DPIP absorbs. First, spinach leaves containing chloroplasts are deveined and chilled in a refrigerator. Deveining the leaves removes any excess material not containing chloroplasts, while chilling the leaves ensures that they remain stable and crisp. The suspension of chloroplasts is then mixed with 0.5M of sucrose in a chilled blender over three 10-second periods to scramble the plant cells and release the chloroplasts. Once blended, the solution is poured through three layers of cheesecloth to distill a purer concentration of chloroplasts. A third of the solution is collected as is, while another third is boiled in a beaker. The unboiled solution will serve as the experimental group, while the boiled solution, which presumably will not photosynthesize, is used as a control. The final third is kept in the dark, covered by a foil cap, serving as another control. 
b. When we begin testing, we should have four test tubes: a callibration tube, an experimental tube, and two control tubes. These are labelled from 1-4. The suspension of boiled and unboiled chloroplasts are kept on ice before being added to the tubes. Buffer, water, and DPIP are added to the tubes. The phosphate buffer helps to maintain a constant pH level throughout the experiment. The chloroplasts are added to the appropriate tubes in three drops, then the tubes are immediately inverted to mix the contents. The chloroplasts are added last to prevent the contents being diluted before measuring. The tubes are then read with the spectrophotometer, and the results are recorded. The inversion, reading, and recording process is repeated three times at three-minute intervals, with the spectrophotometer being recallibrated each time to ensure accuracy. 