Sasha (narrator) and Katya are the children of a Russian nobleman turned alcoholic. After their mother’s death, their estate falls into disrepair and they move to an apartment in Petersburg. Their father’s drinking gets worse and he takes a young mistress, so their grandmother moves in to take care of them. Sasha, who inherited his mother’s heart condition, rebels against his doctor’s rules, keeping his condition secret and trying to live a normal life.

As teenagers, Katya is betrothed to a Battenberg prince, while Sasha is sent to military boarding school. There, he stirs up trouble, but befriends the headmaster, who takes Sasha under his wing. At the end of his first semester, he is nominated to write a column for the school newspaper. He is recruited to join a secret society, run by three second-years, and together, they hold meetings in the school’s abandoned attic.

The leader of the secret society, Vitya, strikes up a rivalry with Sasha, which becomes a friendship after Vitya helps Sasha during a cardiac event. Later, one of the other members is found dead in his dorm; it is ruled a suicide, but the boys believe otherwise. The three remaining members spend their meetings trying to solve the murder, and all clues point to one of their teachers.

Katya is unhappy with her Battenberg fiancé. During a trip to a French jewelry store, she strikes up a conversation with the jeweler’s charmingly awkward son Louis. The two fall in love, and Katya tells her grandmother, who reprimands her. When Sasha is staying the night, Katya attempts suicide by holding her head underwater in the tub, and Sasha saves her. She expresses her desire to elope with Louis, and Sasha gives her instructions on how to escape. Later, when she leaves with Louis on the train, she and Sasha share a tearful goodbye, and Sasha wishes he could have told her about Vitya.

During a holiday weekend, the secret society sneaks out to drink. Vitya has one too many and Sasha accompanies him back home, where he meets Vitya’s mother, a prostitute, and Vitya’s younger sister. Sasha takes care of Vitya, and they sleep in the same bed. Vitya is embarrassed of his family but slowly opens up.

At school, the third member of the secret society finds a document proving that one of their teachers was having an affair with the boy who was killed. The three boys discuss what could be done, and decide to present the evidence to the headmaster, who admits that he has been aware of the teacher’s abusive habits for many years. Disgusted, the third member drops out of school, while Vitya and Sasha finish their final year but skip their graduation ceremony. They take the train to the countryside and explore an abandoned church, spending the night behind the pulpit.

Later, Vitya has a commission in the army, while Sasha works in politics. His heart is failing, however, and a doctor recommends that he undergo an experimental surgery. While in the hospital, waiting to be prepped for surgery, Sasha sits with Vitya and his grandmother. He reads a letter from Katya, telling him that she and Louis are living in France with their baby boy, whom they named after Sasha. The doctors wheel him away, and the book ends.