#### What is the psychological issue impacting your academic performance?
Last fall, I began dating another student here at UNC. What started as something fun and innocent ended up becoming an abusive relationship, with my ex-boyfriend controlling everything he could about my life. Because he was my first serious boyfriend, I was too afraid and naive to walk away. As someone with diagnosed depression and anxiety, it was easy for me to begin to feel that everything was pointless, and it quickly became impossible for me to manage both my relationship and my course load. I began to struggle with thoughts of suicide, and I was unable to adequately prepare for my exams and assignments. 

#### Provide a timeline of the psychological issue, including the most recent occurrence.
When my semester started, I was enrolled in six courses (see transcript attached): chemistry, chemistry lab, biology, biology lab, psychology, and neuroscience lab. I was stressed and burned out after taking calculus 1 and 2, along with a med-school level neuroscience course, over the summer: I’d only had one week off between the end of summer school and the beginning of the fall semester. I had decent study habits, did all my homework on time, went to class, did everything right. I had a few people tell me doing chemistry and biology in the same semester was a mistake, but I was determined to get chemistry out of the way. 
My ex-boyfriend and I met on September 18th and began going out about a week later. At first, the relationship didn’t take up too much of my time, and I was still able to prioritize studying. When I failed my first chemistry exam, I was shocked by how poorly I’d done on the exam, but wasn’t sure how to improve my performance. With my busy schedule and my new relationship, I knew I didn’t have the time to meet with a tutor. Even if I’d had the time, I’d heard very mixed things about peer tutoring on campus, and decided to try to use online resources (Organic Chemistry Tutor, etc) instead. 
By the time my second chemistry exam came around, my relationship had begun to take over my life. My boyfriend’s behavior had started changing, but I assumed it was my fault. He’d blame me for not helping him with his drinking problem, not being “fun” enough, and even told me I’d “made him” waste his money on me when in reality I’d done no such thing! He took up more and more of my time, picking me up at random without telling me his plans and lashing out at me if I didn’t go along with what he wanted. I was exhausted and scared, and as a result, my grades started to suffer. After I failed my second chemistry exam, I decided to pass-fail the course, not realizing that I would have to retake it to fulfill my degree requirements. My parents were disappointed with me, telling me that I’d given up on my schoolwork and should not have pass-failed the course. 
My third chemistry exam was an absolute disaster: my boyfriend convinced me to leave early so that I could catch the bus because picking me up from school was an “inconvenience” for him (it’s worth noting that he lived at most seven minutes away). He told me I “should’ve picked up on the hints he was dropping” and should’ve realized that he just didn’t want to see me, despite the fact that he had previously asked to see me that day. Things got worse and worse. He forced me into drinking, which was something I’d previously told him I was uncomfortable with, and persuaded me to go off my anxiety medication. He claimed I was reliant on my meds, that it was unusual for someone my age to be on antidepressants, and that the medications would cause dementia and pregnancy issues. Unfortunately, he won me over, and I endured severe SSRI withdrawal for about a week during the semester. 
By December, I was completely suicidal. After he fought with me one night and raped me the next morning, I considered overdosing on my leftover psychiatric medications to end my life. Thankfully, I didn’t attempt. 
During reading week, I tried to study for the chemistry final, but I had few notes and I was beyond unhappy. I knew that no matter what I got on the final, I would not pass the class, so I found it difficult to motivate myself to study. I got a 40 on the final and failed the class. My family was furious at me and I was extremely disappointed in myself. When my ex-boyfriend and I finally broke up at the end of December, my mental health improved almost immediately. As the spring semester began, I threw myself into my studies, and I currently have A’s in four classes and a B in one. I’m no longer experiencing symptoms of depression and I feel so relieved that this relationship is behind me. 

#### What treatment did you receive and/or are currently receiving?
I was initially taking anti-depressants (citalopram and buspirone) to help with my mental issues, but my ex-boyfriend convinced me that they were bad for me and accused me of using them as a “crutch” when I didn’t really need them. Thankfully, I am now back on medication (venlafaxine) that treats my anxiety. I met with a therapist last year, which was somewhat productive, and I’m currently working with a new therapist to process what happened in my relationship.  

#### Why were your other classes not impacted?
Simply put, chemistry was much harder than any of my other classes, and completing the coursework took much more time and attention. In my other classes, the little effort that I was able to put in was enough to allow me to pass the class. But in chemistry, a massive effort was required to complete the assignments, review the textbook, and study for the exams. Since so much of my time and energy was taken up by my unhealthy relationship and my resulting mental issues, I was unable to devote enough time and energy to chemistry. 

#### Is the psychological issue ongoing or resolved? If on-going, how are you continuing to address the issue?
I struggle with chronic depression, so there are always times when I feel better and times when I feel worse. However, I have thankfully gotten out of my abusive relationship, and as a result, I’m much happier. I’ve spent time connecting with friends, journaling, working on my faith, and learning how to be patient with myself when my mental health takes a dip.

#### What strategies and services are you utilizing to address the psychological issues?
As stated above, I see a therapist and take medication to help with my psychological issues. I am also making sure to prioritize my studies — not over my health, of course, but definitely over dating. I plan out my week every day, make sure to get my assignments done early, and carefully prepare for my exams, taking extensive notes, quizzing myself, and using study guides and practice tests to better understand the material. 

#### Is there any additional relevant information you would like the committee to know that wasn't provided in your previous answers?
No - thank you for considering my appeal. 

#### Report
From September to December of 2024 I was in a relationship with Brent Hutcheson. He knew at the beginning of our relationship that his PI, Dr. Gary Pielak, was also my chemistry professor, but I did not realize this until later. Within a month of dating him, his behavior began to change, becoming manipulative and even abusive. At this time, he was also abusing alcohol; though he claimed he was trying to quit drinking, he never followed through on that claim. Because Brent was my first boyfriend, I was too naive to walk away, and our relationship ended up having a huge negative impact on my mental health and my academic performance. 

Brent Hutcheson and I met on September 18th and began going out about a week later. At first, the relationship didn’t take up too much of my time, and I was still able to prioritize studying. When I failed my first chemistry exam, I was shocked by how poorly I’d done on the exam, but wasn’t sure how to improve my performance. With my busy schedule and my new relationship, I knew I didn’t have the time to meet with a tutor. 
By the time my second chemistry exam came around, my relationship had begun to take over my life. Brent’s behavior had started changing, but I assumed it was my fault. He’d blame me for not helping him with his drinking problem, not being “fun” enough, and even told me I’d “made him” waste his money on me when in reality I’d done no such thing. He took up more and more of my time, picking me up at random without telling me his plans and lashing out at me if I didn’t go along with what he wanted. He guilt-tripped me about not working on my eating disorder, repeatedly pointing out how thin I was and telling me I would look better if “I had a fatter ass.” 
He eventually convinced me to take even more time away from school to try to treat my eating disorder for the end goal of gaining weight. I explained to him that due to my eating disorder, eating at restaurants was extremely difficult for me. Nonetheless, he regularly took me out to dinner at places that I, as a young student on an allowance, could not afford, and would then get angry at me if I told him I couldn’t afford to pay or split the check. 
I suffer from severe episodic paroxysmal anxiety disorder, and one time, while experiencing a debilitating panic attack at dinner, I told him I needed to go to the bathroom to try to calm down. During panic attacks, I become mute, I shake violently, and I sometimes even faint. He accused me of purposefully throwing up the expensive meal he’d bought me and did not believe me when I insisted I had been experiencing a panic. 
When he nearly got me pregnant early in our relationship, as he “could not” wear a condom, he did not pay for the Plan B I had to take or accompany me to my doctor’s appointments when I got my IUD inserted — which resulted in catastrophic hormonal changes and almost unbearable pain. He even told me “it was worth it.”
While out one night, I became extremely sick due to an interaction effect with the antibiotics I was on, and he told me I was “ruining his night” and forcing him into spending his money. He often drove while highly intoxicated and drank excessively with his friends despite frequently complaining about his drinking problem. He complained about my mental health, which unsurprisingly got worse during our relationship, and told me that my depression made him uncomfortable. He once told me “you know how much I hate taking care of you.”
While in bed, he began to hit me and strangle me. I went along with it, too scared to say anything, and pretended that I enjoyed it. I had to wear long sleeves around campus to cover up my bruises and was afraid that if I went to the doctor and they saw the huge bruises on my legs and rear, they would flag me as being in an unsafe environment. 
As the semester went on, I grew exhausted and scared, and acted less and less like myself. Brent would seemingly purposefully keep me out on nights before my exams, ignoring me when I’d tell him I had to leave, which forced me to cram for my tests at the crack of dawn. As a result, my grades started to suffer. After I failed my second chemistry exam, I decided to pass-fail the course, not realizing that I would have to retake it to fulfill my degree requirements, thus setting me back in my academic progress. 
My third chemistry exam was an absolute disaster: my boyfriend convinced me to leave early so that I could catch the bus because picking me up from school was an “inconvenience” for him (it’s worth noting that he lived at most seven minutes away). He told me I “should’ve picked up on the hints he was dropping” and should’ve realized that he just didn’t want to see me, despite the fact that he had previously asked to see me that day. I failed my chemistry exam — which I take complete responsibility for — and my confidence in myself was crushed. I felt trapped and lost. 
Things got worse and worse. He persuaded me to go off my anxiety medication, which I had at that point been on for six months. These medications (one SSRI and one SNRI) had previously saved my life during a severe depressive episode. He claimed I was reliant on my meds, that it was unusual for someone my age to be on antidepressants, and that the medications would cause dementia and pregnancy issues. Unfortunately, he won me over, and I endured severe SSRI withdrawal for about a week during the semester. By December, I was completely suicidal. After he fought with me one night, I considered overdosing on my leftover psychiatric medications to end my life. Thankfully, I did not attempt. The next morning, he grabbed me while I was putting on my clothes and raped me on the bed. It was nauseatingly painful and happened so quickly. I was too terrified to say anything. When he was finished, he got up and showered. I was numb and felt completely powerless. The whole experience was humiliating and disgusting.
All of this occurred between September 18th of 2024, when we first met, and December 31st of 2024, when our relationship ended. I can provide more specific details or dates if needed. My friends, family, and doctors/therapists were all aware of his behavior while it was happening, and can vouch for the truth of my statements. 

**REPORT KEY: 387470346701**