*Why do you want to volunteer for the Kato Lab? (5 sentences maximum)*
Last year, I was lucky enough to work with human brain specimens and, later, shadow a neurosurgeon at Duke Hospital. Seeing a patient’s pulsing brain transformed my appreciation for neuroscience and psychology. Now, I’m eager to gain more experience with animal and specimen research. The work done in the Kato Lab uses animal models to pinpoint the effect of maladaptive neural function on developmental disorders. Since I grew up learning how to manage my own anxiety, I’ve always been passionate about psychology, particularly psychiatric disorders. The opportunity to apply my interests to cutting-edge research really excites me.

*If you have prior lab experiences: 1. How did you contribute to the research project? 2. What did you learn from each experience? (6 sentences maximum)*
Since the beginning of this year, I’ve been a research assistant in Dr. Hopfinger’s cognitive neuroscience lab. Last semester, I took his EEG lab course, where I learned how to use MATLAB to analyze and filter ERP data. Dr. Hopfinger’s research focuses on attention and working memory, and I’ve helped both of the current graduate students in the lab, running participants, writing, and coding experiments. So far, it’s been an extremely rewarding experience, and I’ve learned a lot, not only about neuroscience but also about my own interests. The experience in the lab has taught me about managing my time, working on a team, and understanding scientific writing. Additionally, I’ve gotten exposure to recent psychology articles, and I’ve gotten the chance to compare different experimental methods.

*What are your educational and career goals? (3 sentences maximum)*
Neuroscience has fascinated me since I was a kid. While my father was working at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, I was able to work with a neuroscientist on the faculty, and even perform my first brain dissection. The professors in UNC’s psychology department have further broadened my perspectives and shown me new ways to think about the human brain. After finishing my undergraduate degree, I’m hoping to pursue a career in clinical research. I’m interested in the overlap between robotics and neuroscience, and I’d love to develop advanced BCIs or neural implants to help patients who have lost their ability to communicate or move. 