Sleep is one of humanity’s most enduring mysteries. It can be restful and restorative, conserving energy and strengthening memories. It can be surreal and disturbing, for those plagued by sleep paralysis or lucid dreaming. It can even be violent, with victims of somnambulism unwittingly putting themselves in danger, taking the wheel or climbing to reckless heights while still unconscious. Yet without it, the body quickly begins to fall apart: coordination, cognitive function, and emotional regulation all suffer during sleep deprivation. In other words, sleep is fundamentally paradoxical.
Though the mechanisms of sleep are complex and often strange, sleep hygiene is relatively straightforward. Three sleep hygiene tips, selected from a recent post by Wilbanks (2025), are discussed here. First, Wilbanks advises his readers not to go to bed unless they are truly tired. Though it is generally healthy to keep a consistent sleep schedule, going to bed while still alert will likely lead to tossing and turning. If lying awake in bed becomes a habit, spatial memories formed in the hippocampus will tie the bedroom to a state of agitation instead of a state of sleep. Additionally, trying to fall asleep when alert is usually difficult and time-consuming, since the brain has not had prior time to transition from a wakeful state to a restful state. These states of consciousness can be measured with electroencephalography, and they are characterized by different waveforms; alpha and beta waves are present during wakefulness, while theta and delta waves are present during deep sleep. 
A second noteworthy tip is to keep one’s bedroom quiet and peaceful. The transition from agitation to relaxation is aided by environmental cues. Logically, the fewer sensory stimuli that are present in an environment, the less neural activity the brain has to perform. The associational cortices — areas of the brain responsible for higher-level cognitive processing — connect with the sensory cortices to create links between senses and emotions. These axonal connections, particularly those in the limbic system, produce the intense feelings that often arise in response to sensory experiences, including music and art. Thus, a room that is calm and comfortable, with minimal sensory stimuli, will encourage the brain to enter a restful state.
More than any other single factor, sleep schedules are influenced by light. The suprachiasmatic nucleus, a small structure in the hypothalamus, manufactures circadian rhythms, which set the daily schedule for sleep and wakefulness. In humans, circadian rhythms run on a roughly twenty-four-hour timeframe, and regardless of any disruptions, the body will do its best to reset to the default schedule of sleep. Circadian rhythms can be influenced by a variety of external stimuli, also known as zeitgebers; the most prominent of these is light. 
The transduction of light begins in the eye; after traveling through the pupil, visual stimuli are projected onto the retina. There, photoreceptors transmit stimuli along a series of cells, eventually leading to the optic nerve and branching out into the optic radiation. Once the stimuli reach the striate cortex, this new information is communicated across a variety of areas in the cerebrum, including the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The presence of light halts the pineal gland’s secretion of melatonin, a hormone produced during sleep. Blue light, in particular, resets circadian rhythms; hence Wilbanks’ recommendation to avoid electronics for at least thirty minutes before bed. As short-wave light, blue light activates cones, the receptors specialized for daylight and color. A bright, colorful stimulus will automatically be associated with wakefulness.
Though it may be straightforward, healthy sleep hygiene can be difficult to implement. I typically stay on my computer working until about five minutes before I go to bed; my roommate spends easily three hours every night on her phone before she sleeps. Next year, I will be living in an apartment off campus, with my first private bedroom. It goes without saying that I could not be more excited. Since there is a common room in my apartment, and my room will be private and secluded, I plan to do most of my studying, eating, and working either in the common room or somewhere on campus. This will reserve my bedroom exclusively for rest and relaxation, conditioning my brain to associate the room with sleep. 
The neural mechanism behind this sleep hygiene habit relies on the hippocampus. The hippocampus’ role in forming spatial memories was briefly discussed above, regarding Wilbanks’ first tip. Conditioning the brain to associate a certain room with a certain activity provokes a somewhat Pavlovian response; the connective memories stored in the hippocampus will tie the bedroom to lower neural activity and feelings of fatigue. As a long-term insomniac, I am hopeful that putting this change into practice will relieve some of my struggles with sleep. Productive sleep is critical for almost every aspect of human life, and sleepless nights have an immense negative impact on my academic performance. The less I sleep, the less I am able to focus in class, clearly communicate my ideas in writing, or produce quality research. If I am better rested, I will not only be a better student, but also a happier and healthier person. 

Kalat, James W. *Biological Psychology*. Available from: Yuzu, (14th Edition). Cengage Learning US, 2023.
Wilbanks, J. (n.d.). _Healthy Sleep Habits_. Sleep Education. Retrieved March 10, 2025, from [https://sleepeducation.org/healthy-sleep/healthy-sleep-habits/](https://sleepeducation.org/healthy-sleep/healthy-sleep-habits/)

______________________________________________________________________________
