Rubric for answers to questions (60 pts)
- Describe the fusiform gyrus (3 pts)
	1. Anatomical location in the brain
	2. Activity to different stimuli in previous studies (Look in Introduction: the first section before 1) results in Gauthier and 2) Materials and Methods in Kanwisher)
- Briefly describe and support the view you have chosen (6pts)
- For chosen view (Kanwisher or Gauthier)
	1. If Kanwisher
		1. Describe the results from the 4 tests conducted and results (12 pts)
		2. Describe how the results/evidence rules out alternative hypotheses (12 pts)
		3. Relate Gauthier’s finding to Kanwisher’s
			1. What evidence is in support of Kanwisher’s hypothesis? (12 pts)
			2. What results are evidence against Kanwisher’s hypothesis? (12 pts)
	2. If Gauthier
		4. Describe the results from the car & bird expert studies (12 pts)
		5. Describe how the results/evidence support the difference in facial and object recognition (12 pts)
		6. Relate Kanwisher’s finding relate to Gauthier’s
			1. What evidence is in support of Gauthier’s hypothesis? (12 pts)
			2. What results are evidence against Gauthier’s hypothesis? (12 pts)
- Discuss any potential differences in how the studies were conducted (look at Methods section) might contribute to the findings support of the facial or expertise hypothesis. (3 pts)

Though the majority of visual processing occurs in the occipital lobe, in the posterior cerebral cortex, some key processes occur in other cortical areas. The fusiform gyrus, or fusiform facial area (FFA), a small formation in the ventral temporal cortex, is responsible for the recognition of human faces. In functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, the FFA lights up in response to facial stimuli. Similarly, electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings of neural activity show that when subjects view images of human faces, the FFA produces a negative electrical deflection known as the N200. The N200 seen in response to faces is consistently stronger than the N200 elicited by other stimuli, such as images of objects or scrambled faces, indicating a possible specialization for facial recognition. Additionally, damage to the FFA results in an inability to identify human faces, a condition known as prosopagnosia. 
However, whether facial recognition is the FFA’s primary function or its only function remains a topic of debate, and conflicting theories have arisen due to the ambiguity of internal neural processes. In their 1997 article, Kanwisher et al. defended the idea that the FFA’s main function is recognizing and processing human faces. They predicted that the FFA would display increased activity when subjects were shown facial stimuli, and tested their hypothesis in a three-part experiment where participants viewed a variety of facial and non-facial stimuli. fMRI analysis, used to measure the participants’ neural activity throughout the experiment, confirmed their prediction. An opposing view was raised by Gauthier et al. (2000), who posited that the FFA is activated by "expertise" objects, and humans simply happen to be experts in facial recognition. I believe that Kanwisher et al.’s theory of facial specialization is better supported by the current evidence, and I will further support their argument in this paper. 
Kanwisher et al.’s study presented participants (n = 15) with visual stimuli while monitoring their neural activity with fMRI. The experiment was split into three parts. In the first, participants were shown images of faces and objects to pinpoint the cortical area that responded most intensely to facial stimuli. In the second, participants were shown a) faces and scrambled faces and b) faces and houses; their responses to these stimulus types were compared. In the third and final part, participants were shown images of faces in three-quarter profile and images of human hands. In part one, facial stimuli consistently activated the right FFA in all participants, but only five participants showed exclusive FFA activation. Those five participants were the subjects in part two of the experiment, where, again, all displayed increased FFA activity in response to faces. In part three, the set of participants was shuffled, with only two of the five remaining the same. Once again, FFA activity was spiked during exposure to facial stimuli. 
The results of Kanwisher et al.’s study strongly support their hypothesis: the FFA is specialized for facial processing. Despite this, there are several notable limitations to their study. One, the participant pool is extremely small, limiting the researchers’ ability to get an accurate representation of the population and possibly creating an opportunity for outliers to bias the data. Two, the study did not compare the FFA’s response to facial stimuli to its response to expertise-based stimuli. This means that it is difficult to rule out the expertise hypothesis, which Gauthier et al. (2000) made the focus of their study. In Gauthier et al.’s experiment, all participants (n = 19) were experts on either birds or cars. They were shown faces, birds, cars, and objects, and the FFA responses to these stimuli were analyzed using fMRI data. The birds and cars evoked prominent FFA activity in their respective experts, calling Kanwisher et al.’s research into question. 
This being said, overall, the results of Gauthier et al.’s study were unclear. For example, birds produced greater FFA activity in all participants, regardless of expertise, which could indicate that the FFA was being activated by the “facial features” of the birds. Additionally, one key difference between these two studies is that Kanwisher et al.’s experiment was passive, while the participants in Gauthier et al.’s experiment had to respond to stimuli. A response-based experiment by definition involves multiple major cognitive processes: the cerebral cortex anticipating the target stimuli and deciding when and how to respond, the motor cortices controlling the physical response, and even the primary sensory cortex reacting to the sensation of the keyboard. These other processes could have distracted from the FFA activity and skewed Gauthier et al.’s results. Kanwisher et al.’s passive viewing experiment was likely a better research design, since, aside from the visual processing occurring during viewing, the FFA activity was isolated. 
It is worth noting that there is a major issue with testing the expertise hypothesis. Humans have been exposed to faces since birth, while expertise is usually something that is developed later in life; as a rule, people are more familiar with faces than they are with any other visual stimulus. This makes determining the true role of the FFA difficult, and it may be impossible to fully explain the cause of FFA activity. However, based on the evidence presented in these two studies, I believe that Kanwisher et al. presented a stronger argument. There is clear FFA activation shown in response to facial stimuli, and though the FFA was also activated by expertise stimuli in Gauthier et al.’s study, their experimental design suffered from over-complication. It is not unlikely that the background cognitive processes involved in their experiment skewed their results. Understanding the internal workings of the human brain is not easy, but Kanwisher et al. provided a sound explanation of the FFA’s role in neural processing of facial stimuli. 

Gauthier, I., Skudlarski, P., Gore, J. C., & Anderson, A. W. (2000). Expertise for cars and birds recruits brain areas involved in face recognition. *Nature neuroscience, 3*(2), 191-197.

Kanwisher, N., McDermott, J., & Chun, M. M. (1997). The fusiform face area: a module in human extrastriate cortex specialized for face perception. *Journal of neuroscience, 17*(11), 4302-4311.